>> Jen Kramer: All right, so moving on to
our next step, now what we need to have is
we need the way to actually change
the color scheme on the web page itself.
People aren't gonna know that the
different color schemes are available in
your operating system settings.
So, we need a way to change those
things on the screen itself.
And there is something really important
to remember here as we go forward.
If you are working in JavaScript,
you are probably familiar with
the concept of a JavaScript event.
When something is clicked, something
happens, when something is hovered,
when a key is pressed, so on and so forth.
We have none of those things in CSS.
All we have in CSS are states.
This is the hover state.
This is the state when a radio
button is checked, right?
This is what we have.
So, in order for us to make a switcher
that will work in just CSS,
we probably need to leverage
those particular features.
And one of the things that we have is
a pseudo-class that's called checked.
In other words,
we can style things in a certain way
if something is checked on the page.
But we do not have an unchecked.
[LAUGH] So we have checked,
but no unchecked.
So what we need now,
is we need two radio buttons.
We can style a page one way if
one radio button is checked.
We can style a page differently if
a different radio button is checked,
makes sense?
So, we need two radio buttons in
order to make that magic happen.
So, let's walk through how we
would go about coding that.
>> Jen Kramer: So, here in our HTML,
just before our article,
let's flatten these up.
I am going to add a header element,
because this is kind of a header for
the web page, and then inside of that
header, I am going to add a field set.
I'm gonna give it an ID of
mode switcher as one does.
Field set is the box that goes
all the way around things, so
you'll see the box up here,
there on the page.
And of course we end that
with a slash field set.
>> Jen Kramer: And
then inside our field set,
we can give that immediately a legend.
And this is for accessibility purposes,
select a color mode.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so
all that formatting happens automatically.
That's what the raw HTML looks like.
And then inside of this,
I'm gonna put in a div.
I'm not even gonna give it a class
because I'm never gonna use it for
any kinda styling.
This is just to group two pieces of
information that we need in order to make
this radio button accessible.
Thing number one is the button itself.
So I'm gonna say input type equals radio.
>> Jen Kramer: And
I'm gonna give it an ID, and
cuz I'm creative, I'm gonna call it light,
and I'm gonna give it a name of mode, and
I'm gonna give it a value,
value of light, okay?
So, now we have one
radio button [LAUGH] And
then I'll give this a legend or
a label, sorry, a label for light.
And this will be light.
>> Jen Kramer: All right, so the reason
you do it this way, you connected
the label, the word light, that you can
actually read on the screen via the for
attribute there, you're connecting
it to the radio button, and
this makes this radio
button now accessible.
Rather than just a radio button hanging
out in space, we know that the label
is attached to that radio button, so
there's our label there, called light.
And if you want to give this a value
of checked, by default you can do that.
This is our default radio button, okay?
I'm gonna copy and
paste all of that code that I just wrote.
>> Jen Kramer: And here,
I'm gonna make a few changes.
So this one is going to have
the same input type of radio.
The ID here though, is going to be dark,
and the value is gonna be dark.
And it will not be checked, cuz that is
bad, you only want one checked at a time.
And then the label for
dark will have a value of dark.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so
just a little field set with
a couple of radio buttons in it.
Any questions on that?
This is a piece of HTML,
it's pretty typical.
You've probably run into it
somewhere along the way, okay?
All right, now I wanna make these two
radio buttons go side by side, right?
Always the next thing you wanna do.
And so we wanna take a look
at our parents and children.
Our field set goes all
the way around everything.
The legend is coded by your browser
to appear where it does, actually,
right on that line there.
So we actually don't need to worry
about that in terms of our layout.
So now what I'm going to do is use
Flexbox to put these two radio
buttons side by side, horizontally.
We can also make this not stretch
all the way across the page,
we can make it a smaller box.
We can have it center on mobile
instead of the way it looks now.
So let's add some CSS to make that happen.
>> Jen Kramer: I'm gonna scroll
down to just before my media query.
>> Jen Kramer: Light/dark button.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so what I'm gonna
do here is I'm gonna add a fieldset.
So we wanna have on the page,
so I don't need a class.
Display of flex, flex,
flow, row wrap,
justify-content center, yeah?
Super pretty.
And then we give it a gap, 3rem.
Pushes them apart, okay?
And then we can give them a max width,
300 pixels,
and a margin of 0, 0, 5rem auto.
[LAUGH] Okay, so
that crazy thing there, the top is 0,
the right is 0, the bottom is 5rem.
So we've pushed down the text away
from the box, and then auto would
push it all the way over to, is on
the left side, and push it over there.
For mobile purposes,
we can make this auto-auto,
and that would center it, okay?
Now comes the most amazing thing ever,
which is, we have these buttons here.
They say light and dark mode, but
they don't do anything yet, okay?
So we've coded them up.
They're ready to go.
Now we need to attach these radio buttons
to the code that says be in the light mode
or the dark mode.
How do we go about doing that?
The most amazing two lines
of CSS you've ever seen.
All right, so I'm gonna put that back
up here towards the top of my document.
In fact, right after HTML.
And the two most amazing
lines of CSS you've ever seen
are as follows, HTML has,
always a good start, right?
We love the has selector, and
then we're gonna say our mode switcher,
that's the ID of that box there,
the field set.
And we're doing this for
purposes of the cascade,
that's where we're working
with the IDs here.
And then I'm going to
say the light button,
remember our light radio button has an ID,
and we're gonna say checked.
So, in other words, when the light radio
button is checked in that field set,
if such a thing exists
anywhere here in our HTML,
then we are going to say
the color scheme is light.
Whoa, look at that.
That's amazing, right?
Okay, when I go back to my dark button,
it actually did switch back to dark.
But we can also write that
selector as well, okay?
And the reason the dark button
worked here, in my case,
is because I have dark mode turned on.
So if I go back to light mode and
I switched to my dark button,
it doesn't work anymore, okay?
And that's why that didn't work.
The reason is, remember, in CSS,
we have a pseudo-class for
checked, we do not have a pseudo-class for
unchecked, okay?
So what we're gonna have to
do is duplicate the style,
and this time we're gonna say
dark checked, color scheme dark.
And now we have ability to toggle
between our two color modes.
[SOUND] Yay, yay.
Applause, everybody, right?
Isn't that amazing?
That's the most fun thing
we've done all day.
All right, that's really amazing.
>> Speaker 2: Chat says
it's a great use of has.
>> Jen Kramer: It is an amazing
use of has, isn't it?
Very, very cool stuff.
And of course, then we can style
this up to work in responsive mode.
Right now, it's just in the center.
I'm actually not gonna spend any more time
styling this because the next thing I know
you want is you want this to be a switch.
[LAUGH] And it's not yet a switch.
Are there questions as to why
this works with radio buttons?
Why we needed two radio buttons and the
bits and pieces that make this all flow?
Any questions on any of
that at this point, good?
>> Speaker 2: Just impressed,
they're shocked.
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah,
it's so much fun, isn't it?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, I always thought this,
I did this before, but with JavaScript,
I didn't know you can only
do with HTML and CSS?
>> Jen Kramer: It's relatively new.
So there's a bunch of things here,
the light dark function,
the color scheme, and has.
All of these things are relatively
new in the last couple of years.
So it hasn't been possible until
just recently to do this with CSS.
But it's a great technique, yeah?
We don't need to mess
with JavaScript anymore,
we'll just do it in CSS now, yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah,
introducing a lot of good things.
>> Jen Kramer: Right, right?
We're changing the color scheme,
that is inherently CSS.
Why do we have to mess with JavaScript,
right?